Basic CSS Questions

What is CSS?

CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in HTML or XML.
What are the different types of CSS?

Inline CSS: Applied directly to an HTML element using the style attribute.
Internal CSS: Defined within a <style> tag inside the <head> section of the HTML document.
External CSS: Defined in a separate .css file and linked using the <link> tag.
What is the syntax of CSS?

CSS syntax consists of a selector and a declaration block. The declaration block contains one or more declarations, each consisting of a property and a value.
css
Copy code
selector {
  property: value;
}
What is the box model in CSS?

The CSS box model describes the rectangular boxes generated for elements. It includes:
Content: The actual content.
Padding: Space around the content.
Border: A line around the padding.
Margin: Space outside the border.
What is the difference between padding and margin?

Padding is the space between the content and the border, while margin is the space outside the border.
How do you include CSS in an HTML file?

Inline: <h1 style="color: red;">Title</h1>
Internal: Inside a <style> tag in the <head> section.
External: Linking to an external CSS file using <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">.
What is the purpose of the z-index property in CSS?

It controls the vertical stacking order of elements. Elements with higher z-index values appear above those with lower values.
What is the difference between class and id selectors in CSS?

id is unique to a single element and is identified using #. class can be used on multiple elements and is identified using ..
What is the difference between relative and absolute positioning?

Relative positioning moves an element relative to its normal position in the document flow, while absolute positioning moves an element relative to its nearest positioned ancestor.
What is a CSS selector?

A selector defines which HTML elements are affected by a given CSS rule.
Intermediate CSS Questions
What are the different combinators in CSS?

Descendant selector ( ): Selects all elements that are descendants of a specified element.
Child selector (>): Selects elements that are direct children of a specified element.
Adjacent sibling selector (+): Selects the element that is immediately after a specified element.
General sibling selector (~): Selects all elements that are siblings of a specified element.
What is the difference between visibility: hidden and display: none?

visibility: hidden hides the element but still takes up space on the page. display: none removes the element from the document flow, so it takes up no space.
What is the float property in CSS?

The float property is used to position an element to the left or right, allowing other content to wrap around it.
What is a pseudo-class in CSS?

A pseudo-class is used to define a special state of an element. For example, :hover applies styles when an element is hovered over.
What is a pseudo-element in CSS?

A pseudo-element is used to style specific parts of an element. For example, ::before and ::after can insert content before or after an element's content.
What is the difference between em and rem units in CSS?

em is relative to the font-size of the parent element, while rem is relative to the root element (<html>)'s font size.
How can you center a block element horizontally in CSS?

By setting margin: auto on the element and giving it a defined width:
css
Copy code
div {
  width: 50%;
  margin: 0 auto;
}
What is the overflow property in CSS?

It controls how content is handled if it overflows the box. Common values include:
visible: Default, content is not clipped.
hidden: Content is clipped.
scroll: Adds a scrollbar.
auto: Adds a scrollbar if needed.
What is the display property in CSS?

It controls the layout behavior of an element. Common values include:
block: Makes the element a block-level element.
inline: Makes the element an inline element.
inline-block: Similar to inline but allows setting width and height.
none: Hides the element from the page.
What is the position property in CSS?

It controls how an element is positioned. Common values include:
static: Default, positioned according to the document flow.
relative: Positioned relative to its normal position.
absolute: Positioned relative to its nearest positioned ancestor.
fixed: Positioned relative to the browser window.
sticky: Toggles between relative and fixed depending on the scroll position.
